Now that we added icons, let's add splash screens and here I first of all want to draw your attention
towards a package, react native splash screen which might make this a bit easier, though I will use
another approach which is also pretty easy but you can use this package here to add splash screens crossplatform.
There are also some interesting article you can read on how to add splash screens but you can also follow
the approach I show here, it always also depends on which kind of splash screen we want to add, I'll
add a relatively simple one.
Now to add such a splash screen as I want to add it for android, I will simply go to the source main
Java folder and in there to your main activity file and there we have this splash screen activity, the
splash activity we extend. In there,
I now will add a new function and now we're actually going to write a bit of Java code but no worries
it won't be complicated.
First of all let's add override
because we're going to override a function that already exists in splash activity,
so we're adding our own implementation. It's a public function
and in Java we also have to define what this function returns,
this will be a linear layout and then we give it a name of create splash layout, like this.
Now of course you will find the finished code attached to this lecture module as always.
Now in there, we create a linear layout view
maybe, so this is how you create the variable in Java, the
type and then the name and we create a new linear layout for this.
We have to pass this to that,
we also have to import that and the path for this is import Android widget linear layout, we can already
import some other things we'll need, import Android graphics color because I want to use some color as
a background basically for the splash screen, import Android widget text view because I want to output some
text, import Android
view gravity is something else we'll need and import android util, for utility of course typed
value,
you will see how we use these. So now with these imports added,
let's add the text view
here, I'll name it text view and it will be a new text view where we also pass this or reference to the
classes argument.
Then I can take my view in call set background color here and set the color which I get from this
import color package where I can call parse color function to pass my own color I want to use
and here I can just pass the hex code,
I'll use #521751,
you can of course play around with that. Then I'll use this gravity thing
with set gravity, this will define how elements are basically laid out and I'll use the gravity
package here and a center constant,
so this will basically ensure that everything is centered vertically and horizontally.
Then I add my text view and there I will set a text color where I also use the color package to parse
a hex code color and I will use #fa923f as a color,
these colors that would fit
the icon basically.
And then here I'll use text
view, set text and I'll add awesome places here,
so that is the text we actually want to display.
Then we're nearing the end, I'll also set a gravity
here and access gravity center here too to center the text and I'll set a size with set text size and
there I will get it from this type value package and get complex unit dip to use density independent
pixels and then set a size of 40 pixels, again
these will be adjusted to the screen size automatically. And then I just add this view, so the text
view to my background view so to say and return the view here and this is how we programmatically create
a simple splash screen. Again for more complex examples or anything else you want to do,
check out the resources I mentioned,
you'll of course also find links at the end of the module.
That's android, now for iOS,
we again use Xcode and there you have this LaunchScreen.zip file.
If you open that, you can basically edit your screen here,
now it looks like a square but it will actually be adjusted.
Now here we can also add a text, so we can do all of that
here in this editor and center
this, make sure that really is centered here.
Now you can then click on it and hold control and drag this line into this view which is blue and then choose
center horizontally and do it again to center vertically too so that this really is centered.
This is a special way of layouting in Xcode or for iOS apps which will make sure that this really
looks good on all device sizes,
I'll get rid of powered by react native and now I just want to use a background color here, for this,
you can click on this icon here in the top right and then choose a background color here
and in that color picker, I'll go to this here and pick RGB color so that I can enter a hex code and
now I will use this as a background color and as a foreground color for awesome places.
Now on the right here too with this icon selected at the top, you can choose a color up here and I
will choose the same I used in android here
to get this splash screen and of course you can edit this to change it in whichever way you want.
With that however, we edited this for both Android and iOS,
now I will uninstall both apps one more time to then of course reinstall them to see these
changes,
so let's do that really quick, uninstall both apps and then simply re-execute npm run Android and thereafter
npm run ios and this will make sure that both are rebuilt and shipped to the respective operating system
and that we then hopefully see our splash screens there
once they run.
So here is the android one, looks good
and now we should see the iOS one in a second too
once this is finished and installs and then starts on our ios device, here it is coming and that's
the splash screen.
There is one extra part I don't want to have though
and if you got that behavior, you can go back into Xcode and there on the top, you can click on view
here and see that there is actually a second awesome places view somewhere, here
the black one beneath that so I somehow copy it, that might not be the case for you.
I will quickly delete that and then bring this back into position
and here on the right, awesome places. Make sure that here if you click this icon here, the size inspector
that you only got two constraints for x and y centering to the super view, delete all others
you might have.
And with that, we can delete this app from iOS one more time,
so from our iPhone simulator and rerun npm run ios to now build it again and hopefully see
the right splash screen the next time.
And then we would be finished with this basic splash screen setup and of course, you can as always dive
deeper, do more here but with that, I think we have a really beautiful splash screens, awesome.